adding CWE-459 (#893)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Secure-Coding-Guide-for-Python/CWE-664/CWE-459/README.md

# CWE-459: Incomplete Cleanup

Leftover temporary files not properly cleaned up after the completion of any script, can lead to resource exhaustion and disable a service.

Temporary files can be used to store data, either between processes, or to preserve memory. Using temporary files comes with several challenges, we need to ensure that the temporary files are removed before the termination of the process. In the case of the process terminating abnormally, we can't rely on a finally block as it could fail to run. In the case that the program still fails to free up the execution, we need to ensure that the temporary files are created with the correct permissions and in the correct location so the OS can cleanup after the process finishes, while ensuring to restrict access to other processes.

In Python there is two documented ways to create temporary files using the tempfile library, tempfile.mkstemp() and tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile() .

> tempfile.mksdir() creates a secure file in the most secure fashion allowing only read and write to the user who executed the python script. It returns a tuple, which does not work well with the "with" statement. This mean that the user is responsible for deleting the temporary file after use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tempfile.mkstemp() creates a secure file in the most secure fashion allowing only read and write to the user who executed the python script. The function returns a tuple containing a file descriptor and the file path, but since this tuple is not a context manager, it does not directly integrate with the "with" statement, which automatically manages resource cleanup. This means that the user is responsible for deleting the temporary file after use.  

```

> tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile() is more advanced than the mkstemp() method as it returns a file-like object that works well with the "with" statement, although it creates the file with the same permissions as mkstemp(). The default behaviour is to delete the file once the "with" block is finished. If the file is needed outside of the with block, the delete_on_close parameter must be set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tempfile.NamedTemporaryFile() is more advanced than the mkstemp() method as it returns a file-like object, which acts as a context manager, which works well with the "with" statement, although it creates the file with the same permissions as mkstemp(). The default behaviour is to delete the file once the "with" block is finished. If the file is needed outside of the with block, the delete_on_close parameter must be set to false.

```

## Non-Compliant Code Example

In the noncompliant01.py example, a temporary file is created but is not removed after completion.

*[noncompliant01.py](noncompliant01.py):*

```python

> """Non-compliant Code Example"""
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
""" Non-compliant Code Example """
f = open("tempfile.txt", "w")
f.write("temporary file created!")
f.close()
```

In noncompliant02.py, we are using the mkstemp method to generate the temporary file. This will create a more secure temporary file but doesn't do clean-up of the file after the end of execution.

*[noncompliant02.py](noncompliant02.py):*

```python

> """Non-compliant Code Example"""
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: OpenSSF project contributors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
""" Non-compliant Code Example """
import os
from tempfile import mkstemp
 
fd, path = mkstemp()
with os.fdopen(fd, 'w') as f:
    f.write('TEST\n')
 
print(path)
```

The non-compliant02.py does not remove the file after use and leaves clean up to the user or the operating system.

## Compliant Solution

> In compliant01.py we use the tempFile module to generate our temporary file. When not passing in delete=false the default behaviour is the fie will be deleted after the corresponding file-like objects are closed.

Reviewer 2: Typos:
```suggestion
In compliant01.py we use the tempfile module to generate our temporary file. When not passing in delete=false the default behaviour is the file will be deleted after the corresponding file-like objects are closed.
```

> Thanks to the use of the "with" statement we ensure that the file is closed after the file is written, even if an error is to occur.

Reviewer 2: It's arguable, but in my opinion, repeating "the file" like that sounds a bit unnatural:
```suggestion
Thanks to the use of the "with" statement we ensure that the file is closed after writing to it, even if an error is to occur.
```
